feat(elastic-metal): add page for rescue data for EM in rescue mode and troubleshoot ssh issues (#4756)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/elastic-metal/troubleshooting/troubleshoot-rescue-your-data.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: How to rescue and recover your data using rescue mode on Elastic Metal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: Rescuing and recovering your data using rescue mode on Elastic Metal servers
```

  description: Learn how to recover and download backups of your data from a Scaleway Elastic Metal server using rescue mode with SFTP
content:

>   h1: How to rescue and recover your data using rescue mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: Rescuing and recovering your data using rescue mode on Elastic Metal servers
```

  paragraph: Learn how to recover and download backups of your data from a Scaleway Elastic Metal server using rescue mode with SFTP.
tags: recovery rescue data rescue-mode
dates:
  validation: 2025-04-01
  posted: 2025-04-01
categories:

>   - elastic-metal-serrs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - bare-metal
  - elastic-metal
```

---

> If your server encounters issues but does not have a hardware failure, you can still recover your data using rescue mode, regardless of whether you are using Windows or Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Elastic Metal server encounters issues but does not have a hardware failure, you can still recover your data using rescue mode, regardless of whether you are using Windows or Linux.
```

---
meta:
  title: Rescuing and recovering your data using rescue mode on Elastic Metal servers
  description: Learn how to recover and download backups of your data from a Scaleway Elastic Metal server using rescue mode with SFTP
content:
  h1: Rescuing and recovering your data using rescue mode on Elastic Metal servers
  paragraph: Learn how to recover and download backups of your data from a Scaleway Elastic Metal server using rescue mode with SFTP.
tags: recovery rescue data rescue-mode
dates:
  validation: 2025-04-01
  posted: 2025-04-01
categories:
  - bare-metal
  - elastic-metal
---

If your Elastic Metal server encounters issues but does not have a hardware failure, you can still recover your data using rescue mode, regardless of whether you are using Windows or Linux.

<Macro id="requirements" />

> - A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
> - A [created](/elastic-metal/how-to/create-server/) and [installed](/elastic-metal/how-to/install-server/) Elastic Metal server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Created](/elastic-metal/how-to/create-server/) and [installed](/elastic-metal/how-to/install-server/) Elastic Metal server
```

2. Log into your server using one of the following methods:
   - [PuTTY](http://the.earth.li/~sgtatham/putty/latest/x86/putty.exe) on [Windows](/elastic-metal/how-to/connect-to-server/#how-to-connect-to-an-elastic-metal-server-from-windows)
   - `ssh` from a terminal on [Linux or macOS](/elastic-metal/how-to/connect-to-server/#how-to-connect-to-an-elastic-metal-server-from-osx-mac-and-linux).

   <Message type="tip">
     The rescue mode credentials (username and password) are displayed in your Scaleway console.
   </Message>

## Gaining root access

By default, you are logged in as a regular user in rescue mode and may not have permission to execute all necessary commands.

1. Switch to the `root` account by typing the following command and pressing Enter:
    ```bash
    sudo su
    ```
2. Enter the rescue user password displayed in the Scaleway console and press Enter.
   
   <Message type="tip">
     For security reasons, the password will not be visible when typing.
   </Message>

## Mounting partitions

To access your data, you need to mount your server’s partitions in rescue mode. If this step succeeds, you can likely recover your files.

> 1. As the `root` user, run the following command to mount all partitions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the `root` user, run the following command to mount all partitions:
```

    ```bash
    mountall.sh
    ```
   The partitions will be mounted in the `/mnt` directory.

   <Message type="note">
     You may encounter errors such as `swap cannot be mounted` or `many partitions do not exist`. These can be safely ignored.
   </Message> 

## Recovering your data

You can recover your data by downloading it directly to your local computer via SFTP.

<Message type="important">
  Exercise caution when editing your data in rescue mode. The `root` user has full permissions, including the ability to irreversibly delete files.
</Message>

### Backing up data to your personal computer (via SFTP)

You can use an SFTP client like [FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/) to download data from your server.

> 1. Open FileZilla and fill in the following details:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open FileZilla and fill in the following details:
```
